to block in firewall

netsh advfirewall firewall add rule name="All Protocol Block" protocol=any
dir=in action=block

netsh advfirewall firewall add rule name="All IGMP" protocol=2 dir=in
action=block

netsh advfirewall firewall add rule name="All GRE" protocol=47 dir=in
action=block

netsh advfirewall firewall add rule name="All VRRP" protocol=112 dir=in
action=block

netsh advfirewall firewall add rule name="All PGM" protocol=113 dir=in
action=block

netsh advfirewall firewall add rule name="All L2TP" protocol=115 dir=in
action=block


netsh int tcp set heuristics disabled
netsh int tcp set global ecncapability=default


AllJoyn router service:

AllJoyn is a DCOM-like framework and protocol for making remotable method calls
and/or sending one-way signals between applications on a distributed bus. It is
intended to be used primarily for Internet of Things type scenarios such as
turning on/off lights, reading temperatures, etc

AllJoyn Router Service: enables Windows to communicate with nearby internet of
Things devices. Unless you have such devices, you do not need this service to
run. Safe setting: Manual.

App installer:

'Windows App Installer' is an app that is available on the Microsoft Store, it
is an app that can be used to side-load apps using installers from outside the
Microsoft Store, you would not need to install that app, if you do not intend to
install Store apps from an offline installer.

Captive portal

The captive portal feature is a software implementation that blocks clients from
accessing the network until user verification has been established. You can set
up verification to allow access for both guests and authenticated users.
Authenticated users must be validated against a database of authorized captive
portal users before access is granted.

The authentication server supports both HTTP and HTTPS Web connections. In
addition, you can configure captive portal to use an optional HTTP port (in
support of HTTP proxy networks). If configured, this additional port is then
used exclusively by captive portal. Note that this optional port is in addition
to the standard HTTP port 80, which is currently being used for all other Web
traffic.

Captive portal for wired interfaces allows the clients directly connected to the
switch to be authenticated using a captive portal mechanism before the client is
given access to the network. When a wired physical port is enabled for captive
portal, the port is set in captive-portal- enabled state such that all the
traffic coming to the port from the unauthenticated clients is dropped except
for the ARP, DHCP, DNS and NETBIOS packets. The switch forwards these packets so
that unauthenticated clients can get an IP address and resolve the hostname or
domain names. Data traffic from authenticated clients goes through, and the
rules do not apply to these packets.


cast to device functionality

Cast to Device is a feature of Windows 10 (formerly called Play to Device) that
allows you to stream content from your computer to your television, Xbox, or any
Miracast or DLNA supported device. If you don't use Cast to Device, removing the
Context Menu item can help clean things up.

cloud identity

Cloud Identity is an Identity as a Service (IDaaS) and enterprise mobility
management (EMM) product. It offers the identity services and endpoint
administration that are available in Google Workspace as a stand-alone product.

Dial Protocol Server

The DIAL protocol (DI scover A nd L aunch) lets people launches media apps from
a primary device, like a phone or tablet, to a remote device like a television.
See http://www.dial-multiscreen.org for more information in the
industry-standard protocol.

Delivery Optimization

Delivery Optimization in Windows 10 helps you get updates and apps quickly and
reliably. These downloads come from Microsoft as well as other PCs on your local
network or the Internet, and your PC may share them with other PCs.

distribution transaction coordinator

The operations performed on Oracle E-Business Suite using the Oracle E-Business
adapter (through BizTalk Server, the WCF service model, or the WCF channel
model) can be performed within a transaction scope. If the client program has
more than one transactional resource as part of the same transaction, the
transaction gets elevated to an MSDTC transaction. To enable the adapter to
perform operations within the scope of an MSDTC transaction, configure MSDTC on
the computer running the Oracle E-Business adapter, and on the Oracle E-Business
Suite. Also, add MSDTC to the exceptions list in your firewall, which may be the
built-in Windows Firewall.

Connected Devices Platform User Service

If you use smart devices in your home including but not limited to smart
speakers like Alexa, Google home etc and other wireless authentication devices
then the data usage is normal.
The service does exactly that it checks for “ connected” devices and
authenticates then so that data can be transferred between them later
seamlessly. These also include any wireless printers, phones etc on the
network.

core networking teredo service

Teredo is a temporary measure. In the long term, all IPv6 hosts should use
native IPv6 connectivity. Teredo should be disabled when native IPv6
connectivity becomes available.

Core networking icmpv6 and ipv6

disable if you do not use ipv5

File and printer sharing

File and printer sharing is running on the TCP/IP connection you will use to
access the Internet. Other users on the Internet might be able to access your
files.This prompt is a security reminder that disabling the File And Printer
Sharing network component while you have your Dial-up Networking connection open
prevents unauthorized access to your files, printers, and network. If the File
And Printer Sharing component is enabled for the Transmission Control
Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP) stack that is bound to your Dial-Up adapter,
external users of the Internet may have access to your computer or network.

ISCSI service


ISCSI makes it possible to set up a shared-storage network where multiple
servers and clients can access central storage resources as if the storage was a
locally connected device.

mDNS Service *

Starting with Windows 10 1703 Microsoft has included native support for
multicast DNS, or mDNS. The protocol was developed by Apple, via RFC 6762 and
RFC 6763, as a method to perform local network name and service discovery
without the need for central name resolution, such as a DNS Server, and without
user interaction. Simply put, it is how Apple made AirPlay2-based services
perform seamless setup via the Bonjour service.
Devices and services from Microsoft, Apple, Google, and Amazon all use mDNS in
some capacity. SmartTVs, Miracast (wireless screen mirroring), printers, set top
boxes, wireless speakers, operating systems, and more all use mDNS. Most use it
to resolve service records for device discovery. Others to resolve network
names. Some do both. Our modern connected life wouldn’t be the same without
mDNS.
To completely lock down mDNS, disable the inbound “mDNS (UDP-In)” rules in
Windows Defender Firewall for all profiles (Public, Private, and Domain). This
will prevent all inbound mDNS traffic from being processed and effectively
disable mDNS. This is not recommended for mobile workers who may need to use a
device at home or client office that relies on mDNS for service discovery.


MEdia center Extender


Connected to the TV set like a set-top box, the Media Center Extender (MCX)
streams audio and video from the Media Center PC while other applications can be
run at the same time. Multiple MCXs can be used in different parts of the home
simultaneously, each receiving different output from the computer.
A device that receives multimedia data from the network and makes it available
to the stereo or home theater system. It is known by many names (see digital
media hub and Media Center Extender). (2) A device that transmits audio and
video data from one location to one or more receivers.

Network Discovery

Network discovery refers to a setting that affects whether your PC is detected
by other computers on the network when it is connected to that specific network,
and whether your PC can detect other PCs and devices, such as printers, on the
network.When in this state, your computer can detect other PCs and devices on
the same network. People on other computers which are connected to the same
network can see your PC and request connections to it. This is best used when
you are connecting to a trusted private network, and these tend to be password
protected.

Performance Logs and Alerts

Performance Logs and Alerts (PLA) provides application programmers the ability
to generate alert notifications based on performance counter thresholds.
Programmers can also use PLA to query performance data, create event tracing
sessions, capture a computer's configuration, and trace the API calls in some of
the Win32 system DLLs.


proximity sharing over tcp

This feature enables sharing of content between two
PCs with proximity devices when tapped together


TPM virtual smart card management

Virtual smart cards emulate the functionality of physical smart cards, but they
use the Trusted Platform Module (TPM) chip that is available on devices. Virtual
smart cards don't require the use of a separate physical smart card and reader.


Windows Feature Experience Pack

The Windows Feature Experience Pack is a new way of unlocking new features on
Windows 10 devices. Its main advantage is that it is independent of feature
updates or other updates, so that it is possible to unlock new features on
Windows 10 without installing a feature update.

Windows peer to peer collaboration Foundation service

Windows Peer-to-Peer Collaboration Foundation (P2P CF) is a framework provided
by Microsoft that facilitates peer-to-peer communication and collaboration
between devices running on the Windows operating system.

The Peer-to-Peer Collaboration Infrastructure is a simplified implementation of
the Microsoft Windows Peer-to-Peer Infrastructure that leverages the People Near
Me service in Windows Vista and later platforms. It is best used for
peer-enabled applications within a subnet for which the People Near Me service
operates, although it can service internet endpoints or contacts as well. It
incorporates the common Contact Manager that is used by Live Messenger and other
Live-aware applications to determine contact endpoints, availability, and
presence.

Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI)  [Inbound only]

Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) runs as a service with the display name
Windows Management Instrumentation and the service name winmgmt. WMI runs
automatically at system startup under the LocalSystem account. If WMI isn't
running, it automatically starts when the first management application or script
requests connection to a WMI namespace.

work or school account

Work or school accounts are often associated with Microsoft 365 for business or
Microsoft 365 Education products and are managed by an administrator responsible
for assigning user accounts and Microsoft 365 licenses to people in their
organization.

your account

It should be related to the cloud service of your account(Microsoft account
sync settings between machines). So for instance. I use OneNote that is stored
on OneDrive if I removed then my access to the either might not work.

Wireless display and wireless portable services

if you do not use wireless then you can safely disable it

WFD Driver

Specifies the Wi-Fi Direct (WFD) Protocol: Proximity Extensions, which enable
two or more devices that are running the same application to establish a direct
connection without requiring an intermediary, such as an infrastructure wireless
access point (WAP).
