Services to be disabled in windows 10

AllJoyn router service:

AllJoyn is a DCOM-like framework and protocol for making remotable method calls
and/or sending one-way signals between applications on a distributed bus. It is
intended to be used primarily for Internet of Things type scenarios such as
turning on/off lights, reading temperatures, etc

AVCTP service:

if you don’t use Bluetooth Audio Device or Wireless Headphones.

Application Layer Gateway Service:

offers support for 3rd party protocol
plug-ins for Internet Connection Sharing. Modern computers do not need or use
such features so this service can be safely disabled.

Broadcast DVR Server/BcastDVR

The Broadcast DVR server process is part of Window’s Game DVR feature. This
feature lets you use the native Windows 10 Game DVR app to record your gameplay
or stream your active gameplay over the internet.

If you do either of these things, there’s no need to leave the service running
on your system. Typically, it should only enable when you start recording
gameplay or you’ve configured the feature to record your gameplay in the
background automatically.

BitLocker Drive Encryption Service:

unless you use Microsoft's Encryption
Software, you can disable this service. BitLocker Drive Encryption is a feature
that allows users to protect data by providing encryption for entire volumes

Bluetooth Audio Gateway Service:

allows you to configure Cortana while using
Bluetooth. If you do not have Bluetooth on your device or if you do not intend
to talk to Cortana using a Bluetooth headset, you can disable it.

Bluetooth Support Service:

unless you use Bluetooth devices such as keyboards,
mice, printers or phones, you can disable this service. Keep in mind that, if
you choose to disable this service, then Bluetooth devices are no longer
detected and recognized. Also, the already connected Bluetooth devices may fail
to work correctly.

Background Intelligent Transfer Service

[optional if disabled windows update won't work]

BITS transfers files in the background using idle network bandwidth. If the
service is disabled, then any applications that depend on BITS, such as Windows
Update or MSN Explorer, will be unable to automatically download programs and
other information.

Windows Update uses the Background Intelligent Transfer Service (BITS)
technology which downloads updates using idle bandwidth. This technology ensures
that Windows Update downloads only when no other active download is in progress
on the computer. This allows you to smoothly carry on day-to-day activities even
while updates are being downloaded in the background. It is not recommended to
disable this service.

Connected User Experiences and Telemetry:

it will disable Feedback, Telemetry
and Data Collection.

Certificate Propagation:
if you do not use SmartCards, which are sometimes used
in large organizations, it is safe to disable this service.


cellular time

The autotimesvc service is used to set the time on your Windows computer based
on Network Identity and Time Zone (NITZ) messages from a mobile network. The
service checks for NITZ messages from your mobile network every 60 seconds. If
it finds a NITZ message, it uses the time in the message to set the time on your
computer.

NOTE: This is only needed for 3G/4G/5G services connection safe to disable

ConsentUX

Allows ConnectUX and PC Settings to Connect and Pair with WiFi displays and
Bluetooth devices.
if you don't have wifi and bluetooth safe to disable

Diagnostic Service Host

The Service Host: Diagnostic System Host process is an integral part of the
Windows operating system. It hosts diagnostic services that help monitor and
troubleshoot various system issues. Its presence in Task Manager is normal and
expected, ensuring that your computer remains healthy and stable

Diagnostic Policy Service

Diagnostic Policy Service (DPS) is an essential service installed by default in
your Windows. This service aims to detect and troubleshoot the potential
problems for the components of your Windows.


Diagnostic System Host

The Diagnostic System Host service enables problem detection, troubleshooting
and resolution for Windows components. If this service is stopped, some
diagnostics will no longer function. If this service is disabled, any services
that explicitly depend on it will fail to start.

Distributed transaction coordinator

Distributed Transaction Coordinator utilizes a two-phase commit protocol that
ensures that the distributed transactions are applied consistently across all
involved nodes. The DTC server acts as the transaction manager and coordinates
the transaction between various databases.

Note: if you don't run access or oracle databse you probably don't need it.

Encrypting File System:

EFS provides file encryption technology for storing
encrypted data on NTFS file systems. If you do not need to encrypt the files
found on your hard drives, it is OK to disable it. However, if you have
encrypted files on your drives and you disable the service, you will not be able
to decrypt them until you restart the service.

Enterprise app management service

add-on for Microsoft Intune that provides a stream of third-party applications
that IT admins can use to deploy software updates to their users and devices


[OPTIONAL] File History Service:

if you don’t intend to use Windows Backup or System
Restore.

Fax:

unless you use your computer to send or receive faxes using fax resources
available on your system (for ex. by using a fax-modem), you can disable it.

IP Helper:

if you don’t use IPv6 connection.

Internet Connection Sharing

Internet Connection Sharing, or ICS, is a built-in feature of Windows computers
that allows multiple devices to connect to the internet using one internet
connection on one computer.

Microsoft iSCSI Initiator Service:

iSCSI is an abbreviation for Internet Small
Computer System Interface - an IP-based storage networking standard for linking
data storage facilities. It allows client computers to access data over long
distances on remote data centers, by using existing infrastructure (ex. over
LAN, Internet). iSCSI devices are disks, tapes, CDs, and other storage devices
on another networked computer that you can connect to. Sometimes these storage
devices are part of a network called a storage area network (SAN). Unless you
need to connect to iSCSI devices, it is safe to disable this service.

McpManagementService

It's File Description reads: Universal Print Management Service. Which is a
feature of Office 365 that can be used to support remote printing. Since its
startup type is "manual" if you're not using this feature it won't be running.
this service does collect some telemetry for MSFT diagnostics - but many Windows
functions do that.

maps broker

Some map apps, such as Windows Maps, depend on the Downloaded Maps Manager
service, also known as MapsBroker. If you download offline maps, this service
runs in the background to keep them up to date. Because it only runs
occasionally, it consumes very few system resources. It's enabled by default,
but it might become disabled by your IT department or by system management
tools. If it's disabled, the Windows Maps app might crash, fail to launch, or
display maps incorrectly.

messaging service

Service supporting text messaging and related functionality.

microsoft account sign in

 if you use an outlook email address, Skype ID or phone number and a password
to sign in to Microsoft services like Microsoft 365, Xbox consoles or Windows
10 PCs

microsoft cloud identity service

Determine your cloud identity model - Microsoft 365 ...
A cloud-only identity uses user accounts that exist only in Microsoft Entra ID.
Cloud-only identity is typically used by small organizations that do not have
on-premises servers or do not use AD DS to manage local identities.

Cloud Identity is an Identity as a Service (IDaaS) and enterprise mobility
management (EMM) product. It offers the identity services and endpoint
administration that are available in Google Workspace as a stand-alone product.


Microsoft(R) DiagnosticsHub.StandardCollector.Service

DiagnosticsHub.StandardCollector.Service.exe is a software component of
Microsoft Diagnostics Hub Standard Collector. This executable file is a part of
the Microsoft Visual Studio, a suite of component-based software development
tools developed by Microsoft.

The Microsoft Diagnostics Hub Standard Collector is a performance monitoring
tool that collects system diagnostic information from your computer. It is used
to monitor the performance of applications and services, especially those
developed using Microsoft Visual Studio. This tool is particularly useful for
developers and system administrators who need to troubleshoot performance issues
and optimize system resources.

As for why it is needed, the DiagnosticsHub.StandardCollector.Service.exe is
essential for the proper functioning of Microsoft Visual Studio and the
applications developed using it. It helps in identifying and resolving
performance issues, ensuring that applications run smoothly and efficiently.
Without this service, developers may find it difficult to diagnose and fix
performance problems.

microsoft store install service

The Windows Store Install Service process runs automatically in the background
whenever you have apps installed from the Microsoft Store. Its primary purpose
is to ensure that your apps are up to date and to handle the installation of new
apps

microsoft windows sms router service

The SmsRouter service is used for routing messages based on rules to appropriate
clients. It is part of the Microsoft Windows SMS Router Service, which enables a
mobile broadband device's Short Message Service (SMS) capabilities.

microsoft passort and Microsoft passport container service

It is a web service designed to make account login and online purchase easier.
By relying on client side cookies, Microsoft Passport supports SSO (Single Sign
On) among web sites that use Microsoft Passport. It is not clear how many
business partners of Microsoft are still using Passport service.

Netlogon:

this service is not needed on a home computer. It maintains a secure
channel between the local computer and the domain controller for authenticating
users. Unless you are connecting to a network domain, this service will likely
never be used.

Natural Authentication:

uses information such as the time, network, geolocation
or Bluetooth connections to offer support for Dynamic Lock and Device Unlock. If
you do not intend to use such features, you can disable this service.

Network Connected Devices Auto-Setup:

monitors and installs devices from your
network. This feature affects the way Windows 10 and Windows 8.1 work with
network devices like external hard drives that are connected to the router or to
another computer in the network. Such devices can be used by features like File
History. This tool can detect hard disks that are attached to other network PCs
or devices and use them for backing up your personal files and folders.

OneSyncSvc.

The OneSyncSvc is a service related to reminders, emails, updates, to-do lists
and more. The OneSyncSvc synchronizes your Microsoft Account, OneDrive, Windows
Mail, Contacts, Calendar and various other apps. The Mail app and other apps, as
well as services, are dependent upon this feature.

Offline Files

The Windows 10 offline files feature is a network feature of Sync Center that
allows users to access files stored at another point on their network than their
own computer, even if the network connection is not working. All data made
offline are saved in the offline files folder.

Payments and NFC/SE Manager:

does what its name implies, which is to manage
payments and use Near Field Communication to make transactions. It might be
useful on new Windows devices that have an NFC chip, but on a usual desktop PC
or laptop, you can safely disable this service.

phone service

Manages the telephony state on the device.and might be used by some VoIP apps.
If you do not use such apps, it is safe to disable it

Remote Desktop Configuration:

Remote Desktop Protocol is a protocol developed by
Microsoft which provides Windows users with a graphical interface to another
computer. The client used by Microsoft is called Remote Desktop Connection. If
you do not need to connect remotely to another computer or allow incoming remote
connections to yours, then it is safe to disable this service.

Remote Desktop Services UserMode Port Redirector:

same as above.

Remote Desktop Services:

same as above.

Remote Registry:

this service enables remote users to modify the Windows
Registry. Some say that having this service turned on can pose security issues,
and therefore, choose to disable it. In Windows Vista and Windows 7, this
service is set to a manual start by default, while in Windows 10 and Windows 8.1
it is disabled.

Retail Demo Service:

enables you to enter your Windows 10 device in a so-called
Retail Demo experience mode. This is used by retailers who want to give
customers a demo for how Windows 10 works. It is doubtful any home user would
want that.

Remote action connection manager

If a Windows computer connects to the internet via VPN or (unlikely these days)
dial-up, there’s a good chance it does so using the Remote Access Connection
Manager. The application is useful for creating secure connections to remote
servers and other resources, helping users gain access to critical files and
applications. If it is disabled or there are other issues with it, users will
not be able to connect remotely using VPN.

Remote action auto connection manager

Creates a connection to a remote network whenever a program references a remote
DNS or NetBIOS name or address.

Routing and Remote Access service

The Routing and Remote Access Service (RRAS) is used to provide site-to-site
connectivity by using a VPN or dial-up connections. By using RRAS technology,
you can deploy VPN connections that let users access your organization's network
remotely.

RPC Locator

the Remote Procedure Call (RPC) Locator service manages the RPC name service
database. In Windows Vista and newer versions of Windows, this service does not
provide any functionality and is present for application compatibility.

Smart Card:

Smart Cards are used for safety reasons in large organizations or
corporations. The typical home user does not need this service to be running.

Smart Card Device Enumeration Service:
same as above.

Smart Card Removal Policy:

same as above.

Sensor Data Service

A component of the Media Feature Pack supporting data acquisition from various
sensors. Supports Windows Hello.

Sensor Monitoring Service

Monitors various sensors in order to expose data and adapt to system and user
state.  If this service is stopped or disabled, the display brightness will not
adapt to lighting conditions. Stopping this service may affect other system
functionality and features as well.

Sensor Service

 service for sensors that manages different sensors' functionality. Manages
Simple Device Orientation (SDO) and History for sensors. Loads the SDO sensor
that reports device orientation changes.  If this service is stopped or
disabled, the SDO sensor will not be loaded and so auto-rotation will not occur.
History collection from Sensors will also be stopped.


Telephony

Provides Telephony API (TAPI) support for programs that control telephony
devices on the local computer and, through the LAN, on servers that are also
running the service.

Touch Keyboard and Handwriting Panel Service+

you can safely disable this service unless you use a Tablet PC. Some "Tablet PC
Components" like the Snipping tool or Windows Journal should continue to
function, but the Tablet PC Input Panel will not.

TCP/IP NetBIOS Helper:

if you are not a part of a Workgroup network.

[OPTIONAL] Wi-Fi Direct Services Connection Manager Serviceopagation Service

Manages connections to wireless services, including wireless display and
docking. ONLY IF YOU DON'T USE WIFI

Windows Biometric Service

The Windows biometric service gives client applications the ability to capture,
compare, manipulate, and store biometric data without gaining direct access to
any biometric hardware or samples. The service is hosted in a privileged SVCHOST
process.

Windows Connect Now: this service is used by laptops and other mobile computers
to connect to Wireless Networks. If you are on a desktop computer that does not
have a wireless card, you can disable this service.

Safe setting: Manual.

Windows Error Reporting Service:

this service is used to report system errors to
Microsoft. Although disabling this service does not affect your Windows
computer, letting it run when needed may help you solve problems and issues that
occur on your system, by searching solutions available from Microsoft.

Windows Camera Frame Server:

if you never use a webcam or an integrated camera.

Windows Mobile Hotspot Service

Provides the ability to share a cellular data connection with another device.

Windows Remote Management (WS-Management)

Windows Remote Management (WinRM) service implements the WS-Management protocol
for remote management. WS-Management is a standard web services protocol used
for remote software and hardware management. The WinRM service listens on the
network for WS-Management requests and processes them. The WinRM Service needs
to be configured with a listener using winrm.cmd command line tool or through
Group Policy in order for it to listen over the network. The WinRM service
provides access to WMI data and enables event collection. Event collection and
subscription to events require that the service is running. WinRM messages use
HTTP and HTTPS as transports. The WinRM service does not depend on IIS but is
preconfigured to share a port with IIS on the same machine.  The WinRM service
reserves the /wsman URL prefix. To prevent conflicts with IIS, administrators
should ensure that any websites hosted on IIS do not use the /wsman URL prefix.

Work Folders

This service syncs files with the Work Folders server, enabling you to use the
files on any of the PCs and devices on which you've set up Work Folders.

Windows PushToInstall Service

Provides infrastructure support for the Microsoft Store.  This service is
started automatically and if disabled then remote installations will not
function properly.

The Windows Push Notification System Services

The Windows Push Notification Services (WNS) enable third-party developers to
send toast, tile, badge, and raw updates from their own cloud service. This
provides a mechanism to deliver new updates to your users in a power-efficient
and dependable way.

Windows Push Notifications User Service

Windows Push Notifications is a feature introduced by Microsoft to deliver
real-time notifications to users. These notifications can come from various
sources, including apps, email clients, messaging services, and system updates.
The purpose of push notifications is to keep users informed about important
events and updates without the need to constantly check for new information
manually.



Xbox Accessory Management Service

This service manages connected Xbox Accessories.

